EIP-4747: Simplify EIP-161 (#4747)
ethereum/EIPs: EIPS/eip-simplify-161.md

---
eip:
title: Simplify EIP 161
description: Simplify EIP 161 and retroactively deprecate unused aspects of it
author: Peter Davies (@petertdavies)
discussions-to:
status: Draft
type: Standards Track
category: Core
created: 2022-02-02
requires: 161
---

## Abstract

> EIP 161 is overly complex and has a number of edgecases that are poorly documented and tested. This EIP takes advantage of the complete removal of all remaining empty accounts in block 14,049,881 to clarify it and allows implementors to not implement various edgecases that never occured and are not possible in future.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
EIP-161 is overly complex and has a number of edge cases that are poorly documented and tested. This EIP takes advantage of the complete removal of all remaining empty accounts in block 14,049,881 to clarify it, and allows implementors to not implement various edge cases that never occured and are not possible in the future.
```

The Oxford comma is a suggestion, the others to me seem like typos.

Additionally the Motivation section is missing and some of this text seem to belong to it.

> EIP 161 is overly complex and has a number of edgecases that are poorly documented and tested. This EIP takes advantage of the complete removal of all remaining empty accounts in block 14,049,881 to clarify it and allows implementors to not implement various edgecases that never occured and are not possible in future.

Reviewer: It would be nice mentioning the transaction hash.

In particular, this EIP permits implementors who do not wish to support historical blocks to not implement state clearing at all.

## Specification
The key words “MUST”, “MUST NOT”, “REQUIRED”, “SHALL”, “SHALL NOT”, “SHOULD”, “SHOULD NOT”, “RECOMMENDED”, “MAY”, and “OPTIONAL” in this document are to be interpreted as described in RFC 2119.

> Retroactively replace EIP 161 with the following rules:

Reviewer: Do you mean these rules apply from the same block EIP-161 did? Perhaps better to make it clear here.

3. `X` is the beneficiary of a `SELFDESTRUCT` with zero value.

If the transaction, `CALL` or `SELFDESTRUCT` is reverted, then the state clearing is also reverted. As a special case, in block 2675119 (tx `0xcf416c536ec1a19ed1fb89e4ec7ffb3cf73aa413b3aa9b77d60e4fd81a4296ba`), an empty call is made to an empty account at `RIPEMD160` (precompile `0x3`), the call fails out of gas, but the empty account is removed anyway.

The deletion MAY happen immediately or be processed at the end of the transaction. A client may assume that `STATICCALL`s to empty accounts never occur and that `CALL`s to empty accounts in `STATICCALL` contexts never occur.

After the start of Byzantium, the only state clearing events are the two listed below. Clients MAY implement post Byzantium state clearing by hardcoding those events.

* In block 4457731 (tx `0x63791f962e13e6b01ec13d38a8ab66c87c2f5a1768276f866300d900cca808fe`), `0xd29DFe5aE95B5C067a91F472Dac0d9be6700A4A9` recieves a zero value `SELFDESTRUCT` and is cleared.

* In block 14049881 (tx `0xf955834bfa097458a9cf6b719705a443d32e7f43f20b9b0294098c205b4bcc3d`), the following accounts recieve zero value calls and are cleared.

>     <details>

Reviewer: These usual show up as collapsed, so an indication/explainer may be needed.

>     <details>

Author: I tested this locally and its fine.

>     <details>

Author: It will appear identically to the reference list in [EIP-779](https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-779)
